In a town of Persia lived two brothers, sons of a poor man; one named
Cassim, the other Ali Baba. Cassim, the elder, married a wife with a
considerable fortune, and lived at his ease; but the wife of Ali Baba
was as poor as himself: they dwelt in a mean cottage in the suburbs,
and he maintained his family by cutting wood. Ali Baba was in the
forest preparing to load his asses with the faggots he had cut, when
he saw a troop of horsemen approaching. He hastily climbed a large
thick tree, and hid himself among the branches. Ali Baba counted forty
of them; each took a loaded portmanteau from his horse, and turning to
the rock, said, "Open, Sesame;" immediately a door opened, the robbers
passed in, when the door shut of itself. In a short time the door
opened again, and the robbers came out, who said, "Shut, Sesame." The
door instantly closed. Ali Baba ventured down, and approaching the
rock, said, "Open, Sesame." Immediately the door flew open. He brought
his asses, and took as many bags of gold coin as they could carry.

[Illustration]

Ali Baba told his brother the secret of the cave. Cassim rose early
next morning, and set out with ten mules loaded with great chests. He
found the rock, and having said, "Open Sesame," gained admission,
where he found more treasures than he expected, which made him forget
the word that caused the door to open. Presently he heard the sound of
horses' feet, which he concluded to be the robbers, who instantly put
him to death. Ali Baba drove to the forest, and on entering the cave,
he found the body of his brother cut into quarters. He took the
quarters, and put them upon one of his asses, and delivered the body
to Cassim's wife. Morgiana, a female slave in his brother's house, was
sent early next morning to a poor cobbler, and gave him two pieces of
gold to go with her blindfolded; taking him into the room where the
body was lying, bade him sew the mangled limbs together. Mustapha
obeyed, having received two pieces of gold, and was led blindfolded
the same way back.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Cassim was buried with all due solemnity, and Ali Baba removed to the
house of his deceased brother, of which he took possession.

The captain of the troop resolved to find out who possessed the secret
of entrance into his cave, and disguising himself, went to the city
early one morning, when, accosting the cobbler, he was told of the job
he had, who for six pieces of gold, allowed himself to be blindfolded,
and traced out the house of Cassim, which the robber marked with chalk.
Buying nineteen mules and thirty-nine large jars, one full of oil, and
the rest empty, the captain put a man into each jar, properly armed, and
then proceeded to the street where Ali Baba dwelt. "Sir," said he, "I
have brought this oil a great way to sell; as I am quite a stranger,
will you let me put my mules into your courtyard, and direct me where I
may lodge to-night?" Ali Baba welcomed the pretended oil merchant,
offered him a bed in his own house, and invited his guest in to supper.

[Illustration]

Morgiana, sitting up later that night than usual, her lamp went out;
she took her oil pot in her hand, and approaching the first jar, the
robber within said: "Is it time, captain?" she replied, "No, not
yet;" so she ran back to the kitchen, and brought out a large kettle,
which she filled with oil, set it on a great wood fire, and as soon as
it boiled, she went and poured into the jars sufficient of the boiling
oil to kill every man within.

[Illustration]

The captain of the robbers arose to assemble his men. Coming to the
first jar, he felt the steam of the boiled oil! He ran hastily to the
rest, and found every one of his troop put to death. Full of rage, he
forced the lock of the door, and made his escape over the walls.

Without letting any one into the secret, Ali Baba and Morgiana the
next night buried the thirty-nine thieves at the bottom of the
garden. The captain at length, however, determined to adopt a new
scheme for the destruction of Ali Baba. He removed all the valuable
merchandise from the cave to the city, and took a shop exactly
opposite to Ali Baba's house. Ali Baba's son went every day to his
shop. The pretended Cogia Hassan soon appeared to be very fond of Ali
Baba's son, offered him many presents, and often detained him to dinner.

[Illustration]

Ali Baba thought it was necessary to make some return to these
civilities, and he invited Cogia Hassan to supper; Morgiana carried in
the first dish herself. The moment she looked at Cogia Hassan, she
knew it was the pretended oil merchant. She sent the other slaves
into the kitchen, and waited at table herself; and while Cogia Hassan
was drinking, she perceived he had a dagger hid under his coat. She
went away, and dressed herself in the habit of a dancing-girl. As soon
as she appeared at the parlor door, her master ordered her to come in
to entertain his guest with some of her best dancing. Morgiana danced
several times before the assembled company, until, coming opposite
Cogia Hassan, she drew a dagger from her girdle and plunged it into
the robber's heart. As a reward for her faithfulness, Ali Baba gave
her in marriage to his son, and at his death put them in possession of
his immense wealth.